---
layout: post
title:  "Guacamole Guide"
date:   2014-08-15 14:39:21
categories: fooding
---

Guacamole
=========
A favorite dip, spread, and garnish guacamole does the trick in a multitude of situations that require serious noms.  The trick is understanding the style and type that is called for each adventure in flavor.

Loaded with Pico Prints
-----------------------
The fully loaded guacamole is something special.  In order to do it right a pico de gallo should be made first as both an accompaniment and base for the green stuff.  Like a good gravy or au ju, the use of fresh stalk provides both balance and complexity to the flavor.



> Pico de Gallo <br>
> - Jalapeño (diced and seeded to preference) --- 2 <br>
> - Lime (juiced) --- 1 <br>
> - Tomato (diced) --- 1.5 cup <br>
> - Red Onion (diced) --- 1 cup <br>
> - Green Chili (diced) --- .75 cup <br>
> - Cilantro (rough chop) --- 1 cup <br>
> - Pineapple Juice --- .5 cup <br>
> - Cumin --- 1 Tbsp <br>
> - Sugar --- 2 tsp <br>
> - Garlic Salt --- 1 tsp <br>
> - S & P --- taste


Mix up all of the pico ingredients and let sit while preparing the guacamole.


> Loaded Guacamole <br>
> - Avocados --- 2 <br>
> - Lime (juiced) --- 2 <br>
> - Jalapeño (diced and seeded to preference) --- 1 <br>
> - Tomato (diced) --- 1 cup <br>
> - Red Onion (diced) --- .75 cup <br>
> - Cilantro (rough chop) --- 1 cup <br>
> - Pico Juice (strained from prepared pico) --- .25 cup <br>
> - Cumin --- 1 Tbls <br>
> - Green Tabasco (optional) --- 1 Tbls <br>
> - S & P --- taste

Gently crush the avocados with hands fold in the rest of the ingredients.

Smooth and Squeeze Bottle Friendly
----------------------------------
Often referred to as taco truck guac, a blended avocado and sour cream mixture fits great in a squeeze bottle and helps make a simple but impressive garnish in seconds. 

> Taco Truck Guac <br>
> - Avocados --- 2 <br>
> - Cilantro (Stems removed) --- half a bundle <br>
> - Sour Cream --- 1.5 cup <br>
> - Lime Juice --- .5 cup <br>
> - Honey --- .25 cup <br>
> - Salt --- taste

Put everything into a blender and let it spin.  Turn it off periodically and scrape the sides.  The consistency should be silky and easily drizzle out of a squeeze bottle. Add honey and lime juice as needed for flavor and texture.  The honey should lightly counter the sharpness of the lime juice and sour cream.

[BACK](http://bontgoy.github.io/fooding/)
