---
layout: post
title:  Working on My Time
date:   2015-10-20 23:19:21
categories: blog
---

--------------

On November 8th, 2013 I left my home, friends, and family to find myself. The significance of taking that first step is still very unclear.  What I do know is that I set in motion a barrage of life changes. These changes came on so quickly that I am only now able to begin decompressing all of the mental stock that has been collected and stored during this time. 

At the time of my exit it was a calculated risk. I was a cook, ski bum, and recent undergrad. I was full of a growing discontent. The notion that I was on the verge of becoming a townie loomed. There is nothing wrong with staying one place if you are happy. I had many hobbies and gave back to the community. I had a tendency to overindulge in my vices from time to time, but progress was being made to shrug off things that were once a necessity to a young man. I was a DJ of a late night radio show on campus and sponsored by a hiking shoe company. The year I left I helped open 2 local restaurants in the heart of downtown. On most accounts I was not failing at life. I only knew that not leaving, that not taking this chance, would result in one burning question. What else is out there?

I have a lot to say about my past and even more to speculate about my future. I fully intend to take some time to get these thoughts on the page in coming months. The above is the background. The below is what happens to be on mind this evening.

-------------

I was a wise ass long haired 18 year old college freshman. It was early fall and I was fully enjoying the nights that never seemed to end. Attending college in Bozeman Montana (roughly 150 miles from my hometown) provided me with a rush freedom that I had never felt. The absence of any kind of tangible accountability filled me with excitement and suspense. As an inherently independent person, I had every intention of gulping down each ounce of this new found privilege. It was a self constructed reality; but in my mind, my cup runneth over. The true impotence of my decisions came to me years later as I struggled to deconstruct each intentionally laid brick of my ignorance.

"Come down to the office and lets have a chat", he said. It was Sunday morning and I was 45 minutes late for work. I was on prep duty at local pizza shop that was proud of its quirky pies, farm to table products, and 'work hard, play harder' mission statement. My boss (and one of the assistant managers) was the reasonable type; the kind of fella you might imagine to be overseeing the college kids and snowboard washouts that populated the ranks of this establishment. I think he bought me a bottle of gin the night before. He lead me to the downstairs office which was littered with paperwork and fishing flies. I was about to get the famous 'come to Jesus' speech that folks on verge of getting the boot hear. It is generally a mix of leading questions about your your current happiness in the position and what the company can do to improve your moral. As an experienced duck diver in the face of trouble I prepared myself to apologize profusely and take responsibility for everything. I would then express how I would die in the trenches if given the chance to slice onions and lob mozz for a little longer. Then he hit me with a curve ball.

"This is a very important and exciting time in your life. I encourage you to analyze your surroundings and take in your priorities. If I could go back to college at your age and do it all again I would be there in a heart beat. There are a lot of things that you are trying do and a lot of types of people you are trying to be. If you need the time to figure those things out, I whole heartedly encourage you to take that time. The catch is... That time is your time. Its not my time and I cannot afford to have your time interfering with my time. The choice is yours. Now get up there and get to work. Or don't. I would just appreciate you giving me the proper notice if that is the case."

I knew when I heard this that it was something very important. A once in a lifetime moment delivered with just the right amount of brevity. I didn't understand it then but it has stuck with me for years. I still think about it all the time. It drives my work ethic and how I handle my commitments. Within the walls of a dirty little pizza place magic can happen. Never estimate an individual and take stock of your time. Make every second count.